---
layout: post
title:  Research and Education - Detecting Spoofing Attacks in Industrial Control Systems Using Machine Learning
date: 2022-10-28
description: ICS security, students' summer project and mid-term project in my machine learning course CIS 492
tags: industrial-control-systems-(ICS), ICS-security, process-anomaly-detection, machine-learning
#categories: sample-posts
---
A brief summary of my student Colman McGuan's summer research and the mid-term project of my machine learning course using his dataset. For more details, check out his <a href="/assets/pdf/poster-colman.pdf">poster </a>
## Motivation
* Industrial Control Systems (ICS) are vulnerable to attacks due to cyber components
* Spoofing attacks can cause damage to ICS
* Very few simulated testbeds available for research and education (launching attacks and performing detection)

## Attacks
* We create 54 attacks of 5 different categories
    * Single-sensor, multi-sensor, single-actuator, multi-actuator, and complex
* Attacks are strictly limited to manipulating sensor readings from each sub-processes in transit to the PLC and manipulating actuator write commands in transit from the PLC to each sub-process
* A number of the attacks are stealthy attacks – i.e., difficult to detect

## Results
* Our model (one-class-SVM) correctly identifies 47 of 54 attacks (87%), 0 false positive. The video shows the online detection. Actual: true state of the system (1 for normal; 0 for under attack); Prediction: output of our machine learning model. The detection has an acceptable delay, very useful in practice for intervention to avoid damages, e.g., the explosion in the chemical process testbed.

<iframe
    width="640"
    height="480"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ckglvMokx6M"
    frameborder="0"
    allow="autoplay; encrypted-media"
    allowfullscreen
>
</iframe>

* We also tested in a manufactoring testbed called Factory I/O. You can find my demo in the following video:

<iframe
    width="640"
    height="480"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/h-0m85NjdCc"
    frameborder="0"
    allow="autoplay; encrypted-media"
    allowfullscreen
>
</iframe>

## Mid-term probject
The mid-term project I assigned to my students in my machine learning course - CIS 492 is to do the same things using the dataset generated by Colman. They were given a training dataset (no attacks) and a validation dataset with labels for parameter tuning. They labeled the test set and I evaluated their solutions. They used independent Gaussian analysis and multi-variate Gaussian analysis. The top 3 teams received bonus in their final grades. Below are the results from the top 1 team:  
True positives: 38  
False positive: 0  
True negative: 19  
False negative: 1  
Precision: 1.0  
Recall: 0.97  
F1-score: 0.987  

